Automatic Volume Snapshots on Kubernetes / Google Container Engine
==================================================================

1. You add an annotation to your Kubernetes `PersistentVolume` resource,
   to indicate how many backups should be kept.
2. This tool will create and expire snapshots to match the desired
   configuration.

Currently, only the following setup is supported:

- Google Compute Engine disks.


How it works
------------

1. Run it as a service, preferable inside your Kubernetes cluster.
2. It will watch `PersistentVolume` resources and check those for an
   annotation named `backup.kubernetes.io/deltas`, which would have
   a value such as `1d 7d 30d`.
3. For every `PersistentVolume` that defines this annotation, and is
   a Google Compute disk, it will create new snapshots, and delete
   existing snapshots, according to the deltas defined.

  **WARNING**: The tool *will* consider snapshots not created by it.
  It will consider, and potentially delete, every snapshot that is
  associated with the disk in question.


How do the deltas work
----------------------

The expiry logic of [tarsnapper](https://github.com/miracle2k/tarsnapper)
is used.

The generations are defined by a list of deltas. ``60s`` means a minute,
``12h`` is half a day, ``7d`` is a week. The number of backups in each
generation is implied by it's and the parent generation's delta.

For example, given the deltas ``1h 1d 7d``, the first generation will
consist of 24 backups each one hour older than the previous
(or the closest approximation possible given the available backups),
the second generation of 7 backups each one day older than the previous,
and backups older than 7 days will be discarded for good.

The most recent backup is always kept.

The first delta is the backup interval.


Usage
-----

Run it with docker:

    docker run -e ... elsdoerfer/k8s-snapshots


Add annotations to your PersistentVolumes. If those volumes are auto
generated by a provisioner based on a PersistentVolumeClaim, you cannot
currently (it seems to me) define inside your claim which annotations
the volume should have. To enable backups for a volume, add the
deltas annotation manually:

    $ kubectl edit pv pvc-afee65c7-d014-084a-b158-42010af000bd

Add an annotation such as:

    backup.kubernetes.io/deltas: 1h 2d 30d 180d


Configuration
-------------

Provide environment variables to configure these.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Variable name</th>
    <th>Required</th>
    <th>Default</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>GCLOUD_PROJECT</td>
    <td>Yes</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Name of the Google Cloud project</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>GCLOUD_APPLICATION_DEFAULT_CREDENTIALS</td>
    <td>One GCloud auth method is required</td>
    <td>False</td>
    <td>
      Uses application defaults if running on GKE.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>GCLOUD_JSON_KEYFILE_NAME</td>
    <td>One GCloud auth method is required</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>
      Filename to the JSON keyfile that is used to authenticate. You'll want
      to mount it into the container.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>GCLOUD_JSON_KEYFILE_STRING</td>
    <td>One GCloud auth method is required</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>
      The contents of the JSON keyfile that is used to authenticate.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>KUBE_CONFIG_FILE</td>
    <td>No</td>
    <td>Automatically uses the service account associated with the pod.</td>
    <td>
      Authentification with the Kubernetes API.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>USE_CLAIM_NAME</td>
    <td>No</td>
    <td>False</td>
    <td>If set, and the name of the volume is known to be autogenerated
        by the provisioner, and the volume is bound to a claim,
        then use the namespace/name of the claim as the name for the
        snapshots.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>LOG_LEVEL</td>
    <td>No</td>
    <td>INFO</td>
    <td>DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>VOLUMES</td>
    <td>No</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>
      Comma-separated list of volumes to backup. This allows you to
      manually specify volumes you want to create snapshots for; useful
      for volumes you are using without a PersistentVolume.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>VOLUME_{NAME}_DELTAS</td>
    <td>Yes</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>
      The deltas for this volume.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>VOLUME_{NAME}_ZONE</td>
    <td>Yes</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>
      The zone for this volume.
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>